Aroon's eyes rolled back into his head, his breath became fast and labored, and his body started to quiver.

It was a drug overdose.
Aroon had just injected what he thought was heroin with his friend Somchai, who recounted the ordeal to CNN.
Somchai said he took a larger hit but assumes his years of regular heroin use had given him a higher tolerance than Aroon. Somchai and Aroon are not their real names. CNN is using pseudonyms to protect their privacy.
Aroon was one of three people who overdosed from the same batch of drugs at the same harm reduction meeting in the Thai capital in September, said Pascal Tanguay, a Bangkok-based expert in drug issues and policy. All three survived.
Tanguay suspected the trio could have unwittingly taken fentanyl, the powerful synthetic opioid that has ravaged the United States in recent years.
So, he convinced one user to give him a small sample and tested the drug using strips he obtained from a US-based NGO. The results confirmed what experts have long feared -- that fentanyl, the synthetic drug produced in vast quantities in mainland China, was being mixed with heroin in Thailand.
"This is the first indication we've had confirming that it's in heroin supply in Bangkok," said Jeremy Douglas, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime's top official in Southeast Asia.
"The United States was ready compared to Asia. This region is not ready."

Jeremy Douglas, United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime

Douglas called Tanguay's finding a "canary in the coal mine." Fentanyl had shown in up the heroin supply in the closest major city to southern China and the Golden Triangle, the border region where Thailand, Laos and Myanmar meet that has long been notorious for drug production and vice.
Experts say the overdoses should alarm local authorities given how deadly the synthetic opioid crisis has been in the United States in recent years.
An illicit fentanyl crisis on the same scale as the US would be "brutal" in Asia, Douglas said, due to a lack of public awareness campaigns, treatment facilities and a widespread ingrained perception that drug users are criminals.
"The United States was ready compared to Asia -- this region is not ready," he said.
The Thai Office of Narcotics Control Board did not respond to an email seeking comment for this story.